---
layout: single
classes: wide
permalink: /undergrad/math2568/
author_profile: true
---

**MATH 2568: Linear Algebra**

Matrix algebra, vector spaces and linear maps, bases and dimension, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, applications.

Required Textbook: *Introduction to Linear Algebra* by Lee W. Johnson, R. Dean Riess and Jimmy T. Arnold, 5th edition, 2017, Pearson

<br/>

Learning Outcomes

By the end of this course, successful linear algebra students should be able to: 
  - Understand algebraic and geometric representations of vectors in $\mathbb{R}^n$ and their operations, including addition, scalar multiplication and dot product. understand how to determine the angle between vectors and the orthogonality of vectors.
  - Solve systems of linear equations using Gauss-Jordan elimination to reduce to echelon form. Solve systems of linear equations using the inverse of the coefficient matrix when possible. Interpret existence and uniqueness of solutions geometrically. 
  - Perform common matrix operations such as addition, scalar multiplication, multiplication, and transposition. Discuss associativity and noncommutativity of matrix multiplication. 
  - Discuss spanning sets and linear independence for vectors in $\mathbb{R}^n$. For a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^n$, prove all bases have the same number of elements and define the dimension. Prove elementary theorems concerning rank of a matrix and the relationship between rank and nullity. 
  - Interpret a matrix as a linear transformation from $\mathbb{R}^n$ to $\mathbb{R}^m$. Discuss the transformation’s kernel and image in terms of nullity and rank of the matrix. Understand the relationship between a linear transformation and its matrix representation, and explore some geometric transformations in the plane. Interpret a matrix product as a composition of linear transformations. 
  - Use determinants and their interpretation as volumes. Describe how row operations affect the determinant. Analyze the determinant of a product algebraically and geometrically.
  - Define eigenvalues and eigenvectors geometrically. Use characteristic polynomials to compute eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Use eigenspaces of matrices, when possible, to diagonalize a matrix.
  - Use axioms for abstract vector spaces (over the real or complex fields) to discuss examples (and non-examples) of abstract vector spaces such as subspaces of the space of all polynomials.
