---
layout: single
classes: wide
permalink: /grad/ams500/
author_profile: true
---

**AMS 500: Responsible Conduct of Research and Scholarship (RCRS)**

This course is designed to introduce students to the major issues in the ethics of science and research. Using a combination of readings - written and web-based - videos, and case discussion, students will investigate the moral values intrinsic to science and the professional and social values with which scientists must comply. Each class will begin with an introductory lecture or video followed by discipline-based, small group discussions with the participation of an AMS faculty member.

<br/>

Learning Outcomes

1. Ethics in using work of others; plagiarism. 
  - Proper citation, written permission, co-authorship; 
  - Restrictions on using ideas of others when reviewing grant proposals or journal submissions; 
  - When does lab director merit coauthor ship.
2. Monitoring shortcomings in one's research. 
  - Do not pick and choose which data to use;
  - Acknowledging alternative interpretations;
  - Avoiding personal biases in project design;
  - Acknowledging negative results;
  - To wary of when pressure to publish and get grants cause ethical shortcuts.
3. Ethical treatment of subjects.
  - Ethical choices of design, control group;
  - Working with campus Human/Animal Subjects committees.
4. Full disclosure of financial and familial conflicts of interest.
  - Conflict of interests with vested positions.
5. Avenues for Reporting misconduct.
  - How to report or seek advice about ethical concerns such as originality or conflict of interest.
