---
layout: single
classes: wide
permalink: /grad/ams540/
author_profile: true
---

**AMS 540: Linear Programming**

Formulation of linear programming problems and solutions by simplex method. Duality, sensitivity analysis, dual simplex algorithm, decomposition. Applications to the transportation problem, two-person games, assignment problem, and introduction to integer and nonlinear programming. 

Required Textbooks:
1. *Linear Programming* by James P. Ignizio and Tom M. Cavalier, 1994, Prentice Hall
2. *Linear Programming and Network Flows* by Mokhtar S. Bazaraa, John J. Jarvis and Hanif D. Sherali, 4th Edition, 2009, Wiley

Supplementary Textbooks: 
1. *Optimization in Operations Research* by Ronald L. Rardin, 2nd Edition, 2016, Pearson
2. *Operations Research: An Introduction* by Hamdy A. Taha, 10th Edition, 2016, Pearson
3. *Introduction to Mathematical Programming: Operations Research, Volume One* by Wayne L. Winston, and Munirpallam Venkataramanan, 4th Edition, 2002, Thomson
4. *Operations Research: Applications and Algorithms* by Wayne L. Winston, 4th Edition, 2003, Cengage
5. *Applied Mathematical Programming* by Stephen P. Bradley, Arnoldo C. Hax and Thomas L. Magnanti, 1997, Addison-Wesley
6. *Introduction To Operations Research* by Hillier Lieberman, 1995, McGraw-Hill
7. *Linear Programming* by Vasek Chvatal, 1983, W. H. Freeman
8. *Linear Programs and Related Problems* by Evar D. Nering and Albert W. Tucker, 1992, Academic Press
9. *Linear Programming* by Katta G. Murty, 1991, Wiley
10. *Linear Programming and Extensions* by George B. Dantzig, 1998, Princeton University Press
11. *Linear Programming* by Howard Karloff, 1991, Birkhäuser
12. *Methods of Mathematical Economics: Linear and Multilinear programming* by Joel N. Franklin, 1987, Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics

<br/>

Learning Outcomes

1. Learn to formulate optimization problems as linear progams.
2. Develop skill in using linear programming software, including Lindo/AMPL.
3. Understand theory from linear algebra and convex analysis that applies to the theory of linear programming.
4. Learn the simplex algorithm and use it to solve linear programs:
  - Putting linear programs in standard form with slack and excess variables;
  - Finding an initial basic feasible solution (using big M or two-phase simplex for min problems);
  - Choosing which variable enters and which variable leaves the basis;
  - Handling unbounded and infeasible problems;
  - Analyzing convergence in nondegenerate programs;
  - Analyzing convergence and methods in degenerate programs, including Bland's pivot rule, perturbation, and lexicographical methods.
5. Understand and apply principles of duality:
  - Defining dual programs;
  - Developing duality theorems;
  - Applying the dual simplex algorithm.
6. Apply sensitivity analysis to solutions of linear programs:
  - Shadow prices and reduced costs;
  - Range for objective function coefficients and right-hand sides;
  - Connections to the dual linear programs and complementary slackness.
7. Learn and use special forms of the simplex method:
  - Transportation problems;
  - Transshipment problems;
  - Assignment problems;
  - Network simplex method.
8. Other recent algorithms for linear programming:
  - Ellipsoid algorithm;
  - Karmarkar and related interior-point methods.
