---
layout: single
classes: wide
permalink: /grad/ams573/
author_profile: true
---

**AMS 573: Categorical Data Analysis**

Measuring the strength of association between pairs of categorical variables. Methods for evaluating classification procedures and inter-rater agreement. Analysis of the associations among three or more categorical variables using log linear models. Logistic regression. 

Required Textbook: *Categorical Data Analysis* by Alan Agresti, 3rd edition, 2013, Wiley

Supplementary Textbooks: 
1. *Categorical Data Analysis Using SAS<sup>&reg;</sup>* by Maura E. Stokes, Charles S. Davis and Gary G. Koch, 3rd edition, 2012, SAS Institute
2. *An Introduction to Categorical Data Analysis* by Alan Agresti, 3rd edition, 2018, Wiley
3. *The Little SAS<sup>&reg;</sup> Book: A Primer* by Lora D. Delwiche and Susan J. Slaughter, 6th edition, 2019, SAS Institute

<br/>

Learning Outcomes

1. Demonstrate skills of working with various categorical data, including binary, nominal, ordinal and count data:
  - Expectation, variance, covariance and probability density function;
  - Point estimation with maximal likelihood method;
  - Hypothesis testing with Wald, score and likelihood ratio tests;
  - Constructing confidence intervals based on Wald, score and likelihood ratio test statistics.
2. Demonstrate skills with statistical inference for contingency tables (joint distribution of categorical variables):
  - Difference of proportions, relative risk and odds ratio;
  - Chi-squared tests;
  - Fisher’s exact test;
  - McNemar test for matched pairs.
3. Demonstrate skills with statistical modeling for binary/nominal/ordinal response:
  - Build and apply logistic regression, baseline category and cumulative logit models;
  - Maximal likelihood fitting and goodness of fit tests;
  - Model diagnostic and model selection;
  - Other link functions: log-log, complementary log-log.
4. Demonstrate skills with statistical modeling for count data:
  - Build and apply log-linear models;
  - Connection between log-linear and logit models;
  - Model fitting and goodness of fit tests;
  - Association graphs and collapsibility.
5. Demonstrate skills with proficient usage of standard statistical software tools for categorical data analysis:
  - Understanding of the assumptions, derivation and interpretation of results from statistical analysis;
  - Proficient in SAS<sup>&reg;</sup> procedures: FREQ, GENMOD, GLM and LOGISTIC.
